In this demo,
we will use the AWS command line to create parameters
in Systems Manager Parameter Store.
In our AWS console, we find ourselves back in the Systems Manager service,
and to start it off, browse to the Parameter Store. As we're setting
things up for Globomantics, and no parameters have been created
previously, there's currently not much to see here.
We could go and use the console and use Create parameter to do our job, but this
task will be one that system administrators will execute many times a day to put
and retrieve parameters, so it was decided to use the command line for this
demonstration. We're on Windows, so the best way to interact with AWS from
Windows is the AWS PowerShell module.
I assume here that the AWS PowerShell is already set up.
If this is skipping a few too many steps for you, then please check out
one of Pluralsight's other courses on the AWS tools for Windows
Powershell or head over to the AWS documentation on using AWS
credentials with the Powershell module. We can start interacting with
Parameter Store by calling Get‑SSMParameterList. As expected and as
we've seen in the console,
this doesn't return anything because we don't have any parameters created yet.
Let's change this. Write‑SSMParameter is used to create new
parameters. The ‑Name parameter will make up the key of our
key‑value pair, and by using a format like this with the forward
slashes, similar to a forest structure,
we do create something like a logical structure of parameters.
Globomantics would, in this case,
be a logical container of other parameters. In more advanced scenarios, we can
then apply permissions based on these logical containers.
Unfortunately, though,
the AWS console does not reflect these in the UI. So to clarify, we would
create the super‑admin‑name parameter in this logical path underneath
Globomantics. As a value, we add the username, and as type, we select
String. This means it is just a plain text value.
The return value, 1, that we're getting here is returned by the API with
the version number of the parameter we just created.
So if we did this again,
we would get a 2. Calling Get‑SSMParameterList now, we see the parameter we
just created. And back to the console, if we refreshed here,
we can also now see our new parameter and check its
content. As it's not a SecureString,
but just a String type, we can see the value here in clear text.
Back in PowerShell, we can create this same information and
also see the value using Get‑SSMParameter.
Let's now create a SecureString. Write‑SSMParameter just
like before in the same logical path.
But now, instead of type String, we use SecureString.
Let's check this parameter on the command line.
Interesting, the value's now encrypted and not in clear text anymore.
In the console,
we can see the new parameter and check what we can see there. The
value is now hidden behind these asterisks.
But as we have permissions to read the parameter,
we can click Show to see the clear text value. If we didn't have any permissions, we wouldn't be able to do this.